1. One variation could be replacing letters like vowels with numbers and symbols on the generic keyboard, like for example, changing a password like 123apples to instead be something like 123@pples, or if we get more in depth, using leetspeak, which is when you take these sort of modifications to another level, like "ESCAPE" being represented instead as "E5C4P3". A modification that you could make is to search through the characters and map out different character that could be represented in different ways, and iterate through those passwords with replaced letters, one at a time, hashing the new combinations. Another variation can be to make sure that we're including the type of passwords that are formatted like patterns. For example, imagine you need to fill out a password for a site that needs minimum letters and digits or symbols like @, !, you could do something like, "@m@m0k0k" or "!Q!Q!Q!W!W!W". This is called a mask attack pattern, these patterns referred to as mask patterns. For our code, we could define some characters as our values a,b,c,... and use a recursive function to find the mask pattern, then maybe switch the orders for the different type of combinations, 1 by 1.
2. Well, the password tests have a max limit of 128 characters, so 128 bytes, plus the hash variables of 32/64, plus the other variables which are maybe 4 or 8, so as an estimate, maybe at the lowest around 200, but it can max out to being 100s of bytes, depending on what are we searching through and the hassh we are finding. Even then, the amount of storage memory being used I don't think is anything crazy comapred to other functions we use our computers for on the daily. I think time-wise, it is definetely limited aka speed-limited. Comparing these passwords to their hash over and over takes time, seen when comparing to the rockyou.txt, especially if we are searching for passwords that could be very deep in the file. I think the memory usage would top out at some point, but the speed is the limiting factor which acts as our bottleneck depending on what we are trying to search for in the cracker. 
